Create op-supervisor.mdx (#1044)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/stack/interop/op-supervisor.mdx

---
title: OP Supervisor
lang: en-US
description: Learn the basics of OP-Supervisor.
---

import { Callout, Tabs, Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# OP Supervisor

<Callout>
  Interop is currently in active development and not yet ready for production use. The information provided here may change. Check back regularly for the most up-to-date information.
</Callout>

> OP Supervisor is a critical service designed to verify cross-chain messages and manage the safety of interoperability between different chains in the OP Stack. It acts as a hub for indexing data that every `op-node` needs to cross-verify with other chains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OP Supervisor is a service that verifies cross-chain messages and manages interoperability between chains in the OP Stack. It serves as a hub where each `op-node` can index the data needed for cross-chain verification.
```

Some features and benefits include:

*   Enables secure cross-chain message passing on the Superchain

> *   Provides a centralized point for managing interoperability data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Provides a unified point for managing interoperability data
```

> *   Provides a centralized point for managing interoperability data

Author: done!

*   Supports multiple networks simultaneously
*   Offers potential for public endpoints to aid in node synchronization

> ## Cross-chain message verification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How cross-chain message verification works
```

| `DerivedFrom`                             | OP Nodes use to check the L1 source of the Supervisor (needed for Safe Head tracking) |
| `UpdateLocalSafe` and `UpdateLocalUnsafe` | Tells the Supervisor when the Node's heads change                                     |
| `Finalized`                               | Returns the Finalized Head                                                            |
| `UpdateFinalizedL1`                       | Signals to the Supervisor new finality signals                                        |
| `CheckMessage`                            | Checks logs in the DB directly in tests                                               |

For a full listing of API names, see the [`op-supervisor` client](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/op-service/sources/supervisor_client.go).

## RPC access to all chains

OP Supervisor requires RPC access to all chains in the dependency set. This allows `op-supervisor` to verify cross-chain messages and sync data across multiple networks simultaneously, such as OP Mainnet and Base nodes using the same instance.

> Benefits of this approach:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Benefits:
```

---
title: OP-Supervisor
lang: en-US
description: Learn the basics of OP-Supervisor.
---

import { Callout, Tabs, Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# OP-Supervisor

<Callout>
  Interop is currently in active development and not yet ready for production use. The information provided here may change. Check back regularly for the most up-to-date information.
</Callout>

`op-supervisor` is a critical service designed to verify cross-chain messages and manage the safety of interoperability between different chains in the OP Stack. It acts as a hub for indexing data that every `op-node` needs to cross-verify with other chains.

## Features and benefits

*   Enables secure cross-chain message passing on the Superchain
*   Provides a centralized point for managing interoperability data

> *   Reduces the complexity and cost of operating individual nodes

Reviewer 2: It doesn't reduce complexity or cost compared to a traditional node layout, it is only a complexity reducer *by comparison* to a more naive way of handling interop.

Author: gotcha, i'll just remove this line 😄

## Cross-chain message verification

> Verifies messages between different chains in the OP Stack, reducing the risk of invalid or malicious cross-chain interactions.⁠ It centralizes the verification process, which reduces the complexity of operating individual nodes⁠.⁠

Reviewer 2: Should this say "OP Supervisor Verifies..."? I don't really know much about doc formatting so maybe this is expected.

### Cross-chain message verification

Verifies messages between different chains in the OP Stack, reducing the risk of invalid or malicious cross-chain interactions.⁠ It centralizes the verification process, which reduces the complexity and cost of operating individual nodes⁠.⁠

> *   `op-geth`: queries `op-supervisor` during block-building to verify if a message is sufficiently safe to include. This process involves checking each executing message and potentially undoing transactions if conflicts or unknown states are encountered.

Reviewer 2: Work in Progress: `op-geth` also queries the supervisor when taking new items into the mempool as an early filter mechanism: https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/op-geth/pull/422

Author: added!

> *   `op-geth`: queries `op-supervisor` during block-building to verify if a message is sufficiently safe to include. This process involves checking each executing message and potentially undoing transactions if conflicts or unknown states are encountered. `op-geth` also queries `op-supervisor` when taking new items into the mempool as an [early filter mechanism](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/op-geth/pull/422).

Reviewer 2: If we can remove the PR reference just in case the implementation changes, that'd be helpful (I think this happened while I was typing)

*   `op-node`: queries cross-chain safety information and coordinates safety updates between OP stack nodes and `op-supervisor`. It uses the API provided by `op-supervisor` to perform actions like:
    *   Updating and retrieving various safety levels
    *   Checking and returning the `cross-unsafe` head for a given chain
    *   Attempting to promote a block to `cross-safe` status
    *   Attempting to finalize an L2 block based on L1 finality

### Safe data indexing and management

> Acts as a hub for indexing data that every `op-node` needs to cross-verify with other chains, centralizing the process of managing interoperability data. Maintains the integrity of cross-chain interactions by tracking safety changes⁠ across the Superchain, ensuring consistent application of invalid dependency resolutions. ⁠

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if "Safe" in the title here is meant to be like Safe of "Safe Head", or just the typical adjective use. I would call this "Log data indexing and management" since it also holds logs which come from unsafe blocks.

Author: agreed, thanks for the clarification!

> Acts as a hub for indexing data that every `op-node` needs to cross-verify with other chains, centralizing the process of managing interoperability data. Maintains the integrity of cross-chain interactions by tracking safety changes⁠ across the Superchain, ensuring consistent application of invalid dependency resolutions. ⁠

Reviewer 2: Should this say "OP Supervisor Acts..."? I don't really know much about doc formatting so maybe this is expected.

`op-supervisor` indexes two types of cross-chain dependencies:

*   Interop messages (events): `op-supervisor`maintains an events-index per L2 chain, which determines message-dependencies to check if blocks are safe

> *   L1 DA (data availability) batches: `op-supervisor`maintains a DA safety-index per L2 chain, which helps determine how to rewind L2 chains to resolve invalid dependencies

Reviewer 2: I would avoid calling things "batches" here - The Supervisor does track the L1 DA for L2 blocks, but doesn't see them as batches, as the OP Node has already done all that parsing.

Author: updated lang, thanks!

### API for cross-chain safety

Provides an interface for `op-node` to query cross-chain safety information and coordinate safety updates between OP stack nodes and `op-supervisor⁠⁠`. OP-Supervisor uses a global read API to determine **message safety** and **block safety,** utilizing both the events index and the safety index (See op-supervisor's [safe data indexing](#safe-data-indexing-and-management)). The API is designed to handle potential L1 reorgs that can affect the validity of cross-chain messages⁠.

Key API methods include:

| Method               | Description                                                                              |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ExchangeSyncStatus` | Updates and retrieves various safety levels (LocalUnsafe, CrossUnsafe, LocalSafe, etc.)⁠ |
| `TryCrossUnsafe`     | Checks and returns the cross-unsafe head for a given chain⁠⁠​                            |
| `TryCrossSafe`       | Attempts to promote a block to cross-safe status⁠⁠​                                      |

> | `TryFinalize`        | Attempts to finalize an L2 block based on L1 finality⁠                                   |

Reviewer 2: You can find the client here, which has the API names:
https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/op-service/sources/supervisor_client.go

Currently we're using
* UnsafeView and SafeView which return the Local and Cross heads for their respective levels
* Finalized, which returns the Finalized Head
* DerivedFrom, which OP Nodes use to check the L1 source of the Supervisor (needed for Safe Head tracking)
* UpdateLocalSafe and UpdateLocalUnsafe to tell the Supervisor when the Node's heads change
* UpdateFinalizedL1 to signal to the Supervisor new finality signals

We also use CheckMessage in tests, which is a way of checking logs in the DB directly.
And we use CheckMessage*s* in geth.

Author: yay! thanks for the additional context

> | `CheckMessage`                            | Checks logs in the DB directly in tests, can also use `CheckMessages` in geth         |

Reviewer 2: If we're mentioning `CheckMessages` directly, better to give it its own line

Author: removing geth mention since it's not listed as a function in the supervisor api client page, specifically (which is what this page/section is talking about)

## RPC access to all chains

The `op-supervisor` requires RPC access to all chains in the dependency set. This allows `op-supervisor` to verify cross-chain messages and sync data across multiple networks simultaneously, such as OP Mainnet and Base nodes using the same instance.

Benefits of this approach:

> *   Cost-effective: Running `op-supervisor` is cheaper than running a full node for each chain in the dependency set.

Reviewer 2: But they will still need to run a full node for each chain in the dependency set.

Author: lol, ok! i'll just remove this line
